[New Concept]: Nil (#464)
exercism/crystal: concepts/nil/introduction.md

# Nil

Crystal has a type which is called [`Nil`][nil], it can only have one value: `nil`.
It is used to represent the absence of a value, and is similar to `null` or `None` in other languages.

Nil values can be returned from various methods for example [`String#[]?`][string-index], which returns `nil` if the index is out of bounds.

```crystal
"foo"[10]? # => nil
```

Crystal has what is known as **NULL REFERENCE CHECKS**, which means that all types are non-nilable by default.
This means that you can not assign `nil` to a variable unless you explicitly declare it as a `nil` type.
In turn this means that the compiler will automatically check for null references.

## Falsey value

To be able to handle `nil` values, are there certain approaches that can be taken.

> `nil` is a [falsey][truhy-falsey] value as well are `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nil` is a [falsey][truthy-falsey] value as well are `false`.
```

> This means that in if statements and other places where a falesy or truthy value is expected it will be treated as false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that in if statements and other places where a falsey or truthy value is expected it will be treated as false.
```

```crystal
if nil
  puts "nil is truthy"
else
  puts "nil is falsey"
end

# => nil is falsey
```

> This means for a variable that has the possibility of being `nil`, will ensure that the variable doesn't hold a `nil` value in the truthy branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that the truthy branch won't be taken if a nilable variable has a value of `nil`.
```

```crystal
foo = "foo"[2]? # It is possible that foo is nil
if foo
  p foo.class # => Char
end
```

## Check for nil

> Crystal does have a specific method that can be used to check if a value is `nil`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crystal has a method that can be used to check if a value is `nil`.
```

> It is called [`nil?`][nil?] and is a method that is available on all objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is called [`nil?`][nil?] and it is available on all objects.
```

```crystal
foo = "foo"[2]?
if foo.nil?
  puts "foo is nil"
else
  puts "foo is not nil"
end
```

This is a bit different when just using the value in an if statement, since in the last examples would both false and nil be treated as false.

> Here only `nil` is treated as falsy, since if it was false it wouldn't have been nil thereby it would have been truthy.

Reviewer: Should we mention that this can be useful when working with nilable booleans?

## Or operator

The easiest way to deal with `nil` values is by ensuring that the value never becomes `nil` in the first place.
The or operator ([`||`][or]) is often used when dealing with `booleans` but if understood correctly it can be used to deal with `nil` values as well.
The or operator checks if the first value is truthy, if not it will use the second value.
This can be used to make if the value is `nil` it will be falsey and thereby the second value will be used.

```crystal
"foo"[10]? || "bar" # => "bar"
```

[nil]: https://crystal-lang.org/reference/syntax_and_semantics/literals/nil.html
[null-pointer]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Null_pointer

> [truhy-falsey]: https://crystal-lang.org/reference/latest/syntax_and_semantics/truthy_and_falsey_values.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[truthy-falsey]: https://crystal-lang.org/reference/latest/syntax_and_semantics/truthy_and_falsey_values.html
```
